# Contributing to Vienna

## Writing code

We currently build Vienna with Xcode 16 and the macOS 15 SDK.

Most of Vienna is made with Objective-C, but some newer code is being created in Swift. We welcome both Objective-C and Swift contributions.

You should have a basic knowledge of Git and read this [suggested workflow](https://github.com/ViennaRSS/vienna-rss/wiki/Good-manners-with-Git).

As a starting point, search for any [issues with the *help wanted 🆘* label](https://github.com/ViennaRSS/vienna-rss/labels/help%20wanted%20%3Asos%3A).

Please let us know what you are working on by posting an issue on Vienna's github and assigning it to yourself.

## Code style guidelines

Try to respect the code style of the code you modify. 

For new Objective-C code or significant refactoring, it is advised to adopt the [Spotify Objective-C Coding Style](https://github.com/spotify/ios-style).

For Swift code, please try to follow the [GitHub Swift Style Guide](https://github.com/github/swift-style-guide).

We recommend to install [SwiftLint](https://github.com/realm/SwiftLint).

## Commit messages

1. Separate __subject line__ from __body__ with a blank line.

2. Use present-tense, imperative-style for the __subject line__ (as if you are giving orders to the codebase to change its behavior). This is shorter and consistent with commit texts automatically generated by Git.

3. Try to limit the subject line to 50 characters : consistent commit histories are easier to read. Avoid at all costs subject lines with more than 72 characters : Github will truncate them with an ellipsis.

4. Capitalize the subject line.

5. Do not end the subject line with a period.

6. It is recommended to hard wrap the __body__ text at 72 characters (except for quoted material that is non-prose, like compiler error messages).

7. Use the body to explain _what_ and _why_ (and not on the _how_). Focus on the reasons which required the change - the way things worked before the change (and what was wrong with that), the way they work now, and why you decided to solve it the way you did.  
You may reference issues/discussions raised at GitHub, but avoid relying heavily on them: a reviewer should be able to make an analysis based solely on code and commit messages.

### Note

Many Git clients show visual markers to help respect the __50/72 Rule__ when entering a commit message. One can also configure Git with a commit template, with a [good example provided here](https://gist.github.com/lisawolderiksen/a7b99d94c92c6671181611be1641c733).
