3rdparty/autorevision/autorevision.asciidoc, before:

= AUTOREVISION(1) =
:doctype: manpage

== NAME ==
autorevision - extract current-revision metadata from version-control repositories

== SYNOPSIS ==
*`autorevision`* {*`-t`* `<output-type>` | *`-s`* `<symbol>`} [*`-o`* `<cache-file>` [*`-f`*] ] [*`-U`*] [*`-V`*]

== DESCRIPTION ==
Extracts metadata about the head revision from your repository.

This program is meant to be used by project build systems to extract
properties that can be used in software version strings. It can emit
source files containing variable and macro definitions suitable for
use with C, C++, Java, sh, Python, Perl, Mac info.plist and other
types of files (see below for the full list).

The generated source is written to standard output.

This program can normally be called from anywhere within a repository
copy.  Under bzr the copy must be of a branch, not a full multibranch
repository.  Under Subversion it must be called under a repository
checkout, not the repository itself.

If you specify a cache file, then when *autorevision* is run where no
repository can be recognized, the values from the cache file will be
used instead.  If a repository can be recognized, the cache is
rewritten. This feature makes it possible for your build to run
from an unpacked tarball that includes the cache file.

=== Valid Repository Types ===

*Git*: A version greater than 1.7.2.3 is recommended.

*Mercurial*: A version greater than 1.6 is recommended.

*Subversion*: Any production version.

*Bazaar*: Any production version.

=== Valid Output Types ===

*h*::
A header file suitable for C/C++.

*xcode*::
A header like output for use with xcode to populate info.plist strings.

*sh*::
A text file suitable for including from a bash script.  Will work with
Ruby.

*py*::
A Python source file setting Python variables (*`python`* is an
acceptable synonym).

*pl*::
A Perl source file setting Perl variables  (*`perl`* is an acceptable
synonym).

*lua*::
A lua source file setting lua variables.

*php*::
A PHP source file setting PHP variables.

*ini*::
A ini source file setting ini variables.

*js*::
A javascript source file setting javascript variables.

*json*::
A JSON format file.

*java*::
A Java source file setting class properties.

*javaprop*::
A Java properties file (like ini); useful when META-INF is readable in
Java.

*tex*::
A TeX source file defining TeX macros.  Note that the symbols are given
different names since the underscore has a special meaning in TeX.
For example, VCS_SHORT_HASH is renamed to \vcsShortHash.

*m4*::
An m4 source file defining m4 macros.


=== Valid Symbol Names ===

*VCS_TYPE*::
The repository type - "git", "hg", "bzr", or "svn".

*VCS_BASENAME*::
The basename of the directory root.  For most VCSes this will simply
be the basename of the repository root directory.  For Subversion,
*autorevision* will navigate up though trunk, branches, and tags
directories to find the actual root.

*VCS_NUM*::
A count of revisions between the current one and the initial
one; useful for reporting build numbers.

*VCS_UUID*::
A universally unique identifier, generated from the root commit in git
and hg; for svn it uses the supplied UUID.
Not currently implemented for bzr.

*VCS_DATE*::
The date of the most recent commit in true ISO-8601/RFC3339
format, including seconds.

*VCS_BRANCH*::
The name of the branch of the commit graph that was selected when
autoversion was run.  Under Subversion this will normally be either
'trunk' or the basename of some branch or tag subdirectory, depending
on where *autoversion* was run.  Under git, this will normally be the
shortname of the current branch (the asterisked line in the output of
of "git branch") except that when the branch doesn't have a shortname
it will be a full refspec.  Under hg the feature that is called
'branches' is actually a sort of graph coloring (multiple heads can
have the same branch name) so this variable is filled with the current
bookmark if it exists, with the current branch name as a fallback.
Under bzr, this is the nick of the branch you are on.

*VCS_TAG*::
The name of the most recent tag ancestral to the current commit.
Empty under Subversion.

*VCS_TICK*::
A count of commits since most recent tag ancestral to the current
commit or an alias of *VCS_NUM* if there are no prior tags.
Empty under Subversion.

*VCS_EXTRA*::
A symbol set aside specifically to be set by the user through the
environment or via scripts.

*VCS_FULL_HASH*::
A full unique identifier for the current revision.

*VCS_SHORT_HASH*::
A shortened version of VCS_FULL_HASH, but VCS_FULL_HASH if it cannot be
shortened.

*VCS_WC_MODIFIED*::
Set to `1` if the current working directory has been modified and `0`
if not. 'Untracked files are not ignored; see *`-U`* for details.'  If
the output language is interpreted and has native Boolean literals,
true will mean modified and false unmodified.  The C/C++ output is left
as numeric so the preprocessor can test it.

== OPTIONS ==

*-t* '<output-type>'::
Sets the output type. It is required unless *`-s`* is specified; both
*`-t`* and *`-s`* cannot be used in the same invocation.

*-s* '<symbol>'::
Changes the reporting behavior; instead of emitting a symbol file to
stdout, only the value of that individual symbol will be reported. It
is required unless *`-t`* is specified; both *`-t`* and *`-s`* cannot
be used in the same invocation.

*-o* '<cache-file>'::
Sets the name of the cache file.

*-f*::
Forces the use cache data even when in a repo; useful if you want to
preprocess the data before final output.

*-U*::
Causes untracked files to be checked when determining if the
working copy is modified 'for Subversion only'.  While this is the
default behavior for all other repository types it is off by default
for Subversion because of speed concerns.

*-V*::
Emits the autorevision version and exits.

== BUGS ==
The bzr extractor is not very well tested as yet.

When a git repo is actually a git-svn remote, this tool tries to do
the right thing and return a Subversion revision. The bug is that the
detector code for this case is somewhat unreliable; you will get the
hash instead if your configuration doesn't use svn-remote.svn.url.

Nested repositories, particularly repositories of different types, may
result in incorrect and unintended behavior.

== AUTHORS ==

dak180 <dak180@users.sf.net>: concept, bash/C/C++/XCode/PHP/ini
support, git and hg extraction.  Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>:
Python/Perl/lua/m4 support, svn and bzr extraction, git-svn support,
CLI design, man page.

Commit message:

Update autorevision to 1.9.
Also improve readability of driving scripts.

3rdparty/autorevision/autorevision.asciidoc, after:

= AUTOREVISION(1) =
:doctype: manpage
:br: {empty} +

== NAME ==
autorevision - extract current-revision metadata from version-control repositories

== SYNOPSIS ==
*`autorevision`* {*`-t`* `<output-type>` | *`-s`* `<symbol>`} [*`-o`* `<cache-file>` [*`-f`*] ] [*`-U`*] [*`-V`*]

== DESCRIPTION ==
Extracts metadata about the head revision from your repository.

This program is meant to be used by project build systems to extract
properties that can be used in software version strings. It can emit
source files containing variable and macro definitions suitable for
use with C, C++, Java, sh, Python, Perl, Mac info.plist and other
types of files (see below for the full list).

The generated source is written to standard output.

This program can normally be called from anywhere within a repository
copy.  Under bzr the copy must be of a branch, not a full multibranch
repository.  Under Subversion it must be called under a repository
checkout, not the repository itself.

If you specify a cache file, then when *autorevision* is run where no
repository can be recognized, the values from the cache file will be
used instead.  If a repository can be recognized, the cache is
rewritten. This feature makes it possible for your build to run
from an unpacked tarball that includes the cache file.

=== Valid Repository Types ===

*Git*: A version greater than 1.7.2.3 is recommended.

*Mercurial*: A version greater than 1.6 is recommended.

*Subversion*: Any production version.

*Bazaar*: Any production version.

=== Valid Output Types ===

*h*::
A header file suitable for C/C++.

*xcode*::
A header like output for use with xcode to populate info.plist strings.

*sh*::
A text file suitable for including from a bash script.  Will work with
Ruby.

*py*::
A Python source file setting Python variables (*`python`* is an
acceptable synonym).

*pl*::
A Perl source file setting Perl variables  (*`perl`* is an acceptable
synonym).

*lua*::
A lua source file setting lua variables.

*php*::
A PHP source file setting PHP variables.

*ini*::
A ini source file setting ini variables.

*js*::
A javascript source file setting javascript variables.

*json*::
A JSON format file.

*java*::
A Java source file setting class properties.

*javaprop*::
A Java properties file (like ini); useful when META-INF is readable in
Java.

*tex*::
A TeX source file defining TeX macros.  Note that the symbols are given
different names since the underscore has a special meaning in TeX.
For example, VCS_SHORT_HASH is renamed to \vcsShortHash.

*m4*::
An m4 source file defining m4 macros.


=== Valid Symbol Names ===

*VCS_TYPE*::
The repository type - "git", "hg", "bzr", or "svn".

*VCS_BASENAME*::
The basename of the directory root.  For most VCSes this will simply
be the basename of the repository root directory.  For Subversion,
*autorevision* will navigate up though trunk, branches, and tags
directories to find the actual root.

*VCS_NUM*::
A count of revisions between the current one and the initial
one; useful for reporting build numbers.

*VCS_UUID*::
A universally unique identifier, generated from the root commit in git
and hg; for svn it uses the supplied UUID.{br}
Not currently implemented for bzr.

*VCS_DATE*::
The date of the most recent commit in true ISO-8601/RFC3339
format, including seconds.

*VCS_BRANCH*::
The name of the branch of the commit graph that was selected when
autoversion was run.  Under Subversion this will normally be either
'trunk' or the basename of some branch or tag subdirectory, depending
on where *autoversion* was run.  Under git, this will normally be the
shortname of the current branch (the asterisked line in the output of
of "git branch") except that when the branch doesn't have a shortname
it will be a full refspec.  Under hg the feature that is called
'branches' is actually a sort of graph coloring (multiple heads can
have the same branch name) so this variable is filled with the current
bookmark if it exists, with the current branch name as a fallback.{br}
Under bzr, this is the nick of the branch you are on.

*VCS_TAG*::
The name of the most recent tag ancestral to the current commit.{br}
Empty under Subversion.

*VCS_TICK*::
A count of commits since most recent tag ancestral to the current
commit or an alias of *VCS_NUM* if there are no prior tags.{br}
Empty under Subversion.

*VCS_EXTRA*::
A symbol set aside specifically to be set by the user through the
environment or via scripts.

*VCS_FULL_HASH*::
A full unique identifier for the current revision.

*VCS_SHORT_HASH*::
A shortened version of VCS_FULL_HASH, but VCS_FULL_HASH if it cannot be
shortened.

*VCS_WC_MODIFIED*::
Set to `1` if the current working directory has been modified and `0`
if not. 'Untracked files are not ignored; see *`-U`* for details.'  If
the output language is interpreted and has native Boolean literals,
true will mean modified and false unmodified.  The C/C++ output is left
as numeric so the preprocessor can test it.

== OPTIONS ==

*-t* '<output-type>'::
Sets the output type. It is required unless *`-s`* is specified; both
*`-t`* and *`-s`* cannot be used in the same invocation.

*-s* '<symbol>'::
Changes the reporting behavior; instead of emitting a symbol file to
stdout, only the value of that individual symbol will be reported. It
is required unless *`-t`* is specified; both *`-t`* and *`-s`* cannot
be used in the same invocation.

*-o* '<cache-file>'::
Sets the name of the cache file.

*-f*::
Forces the use cache data even when in a repo; useful if you want to
preprocess the data before final output.

*-U*::
Causes untracked files to be checked when determining if the
working copy is modified 'for Subversion only'.  While this is the
default behavior for all other repository types it is off by default
for Subversion because of speed concerns.

*-V*::
Emits the autorevision version and exits.

== BUGS ==
The bzr extractor is not very well tested as yet.

When a git repo is actually a git-svn remote, this tool tries to do
the right thing and return a Subversion revision. The bug is that the
detector code for this case is somewhat unreliable; you will get the
hash instead if your configuration doesn't use svn-remote.svn.url.

Nested repositories, particularly repositories of different types,
_may_ result in incorrect and unintended behavior.

Unpacking a tarball into a repository _will_ result in incorrect and
unintended behavior.

== Notes ==
Development of autorevision is carried out at
https://github.com/Autorevision/autorevision

Tarballs and HTML rendered docs are also hosted at
http://www.catb.org/esr/autorevision/

== AUTHORS ==

dak180 <dak180@users.sf.net>: concept, bash/C/C++/XCode/PHP/ini
support, git and hg extraction.{br}
Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>: Python/Perl/lua/m4 support, svn and
bzr extraction, git-svn support, CLI design, man page.
